foreign
the reward is so much more greater and
this is
foreign
right worshiping Allah a time when there
are killings
it is as if you have made Hijra to me
and of course there's not killing is
going on but the
common feature and that which we
mentioned is distractions that which
blocks an individual from Allah
when it becomes extremely rampant
and widespread
before I
move on to the third yeah
I quickly want to mention two things
inshallahu ta'ala that I forgot to
mention in the last lesson
Iman
in order to Adorn the people of Faith
with the best of etiques
we can take a huge lesson from this my
brothers and my sister and that is
sometimes what can happen is
after
we start practicing or after some doors
of ibadat are opened up to us
we can get extremely complacent or maybe
even deluded with ourselves
we just started practicing
or we've embraced the Sunnah of the
Messina
we have been taught
how to be from those who begin the Allah
will be in a very good place in the
hereafter
and we become extremely extremely
deluded with ourselves you could even
maybe call it the saved sect syndrome
where one now begins to walk on the face
of this Earth as if he has some sort of
green card to enter into al-jannah
today someone showed me what the Sunnah
is I am now a Sunni or someone who is
upon the way of this
he becomes extremely complacent
here Allah is sending down the Surah
to Adorn them with the best of faith
with the best of etiquettes
this is off that they have entered into
Islam
we as Muslims my brothers and my sisters
we do not become deluded with ourselves
we worship Allah azzawajal in between
two things which is
hope and likewise fear
you just carried out a good deed
sometimes it happens after
we have come out the month of Ramadan 30
days of fasting 30 days of standing in
the night
I can maybe now chill right
I have maybe what a whole year to just
enjoy myself and then I come back next
Ramadan and that is because
the night which is better than a
thousand months I stood up on every
night of the last 10 nights of Ramadan
I must have caught later and because of
that I'm in an amazing place in the eyes
of Allah
this is my brothers and my sisters is a
huge problem
and that is simply because we have to
worship Allah between Hove and Raja how
do we even know that these acts of
worship have been accepted from us can
anyone give me a guarantee now that my
Ramadan in 2000 and
21 right
was it 22 the last one
22 has been accepted from me my fast has
been accepted from me
has been accepted from me in the night
has been accepted from me can anyone
give me a guarantee that that's the case
this is why acidity in his short poem
called
uh
right
he mentions equality from the qualities
of the oliya
the close beloved Servants of Allah he
says
the Olia the righteous beloved Servants
of Allah
they have structured their path to Allah
azzawajal between these two qualities
hope and likewise fear
whenever they do a righteous deed they
ask Allah accept it from me
right
oh Allah accepted for me because there's
a possibility of it being rejected
did you know my brothers and my sister
the self and when we say the self we
intend by it the three golden
Generations right
as soon as they come out of Ramadan they
would beg Allah for six months
oh Allah accept Ramadan for us
and then the the second six months they
would ask Allah Allah
oh Allah allow us to reach the month of
Ramallah
six months this and then six months that
because they weren't deluded individuals
who were complacent
right
and that's extremely extremely important
one of the
greatest benefits that we can take away
from
foreign
in order to discipline the people of
Iman to Adorn them with the best of
etiquettes this is after they became
Muslims
but they are still in need of becoming
better and better
right and this is how we are we want the
highest part of agenda we are always
looking for ways to better ourselves
no
second point that I really wanted to
mention last week which crossed my mind
was
we might look at the Sora and think to
ourselves
is to start the people with
etiquettes
it's an important Surah from the Surah
of the Quran right and it focuses mainly
on what is
and someone also looks at the
statement of the Prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam Academy
I was only sent I was only sent
to perfect your manners
don't we hear all the time that they
call and the message of the prophets was
starting the people with the tohit
Tim isn't this a little bit
contradictory now
on one hand the prophet salallahu saying
I was only sent to perfect your morals
your etiquettes and your manners and
then there's another verse which says
there's not a single Prophet except that
he was sent to call the people to hit
that they worship Allah sincerely and
they stay away from the tarot and that
is anything that is going to destroy
your tahit
right deity is besides Allah
isn't that contradictory
huh how do we consult between the two
can anyone tell me
huh
Jamil there are two types of etiquettes
right your etiquette with Allah
and then also your etiquette with the
creation
this is why our Chef ahmedi has a poem
which is called
the poem of the best of etiquettes
right he says in there Allah
the first etiquette he says
right
make sure you have good etiques with
Allah
right by leaving of sinnings
by leaving of sins and then also by
doing that which has been made
obligatory upon you
that's the most important etiquette
one thing that really saddened me was
some time ago I saw a clip going around
of a very well known if I mention his
name everyone's going to know but we
don't want to drop any names right very
well known YouTuber
and they were in Times Square in New
York I think you guys have heard of it
right the Muslims they were praying
there and
because of course the Muslims were being
intimidated right they were being
intimidated
he grabbed the mic and he said the
following Brothers
they want a reaction from us which is
very true
they will try to intimidate you right
so they could get a reaction out of you
and then they will use that as
ammunition to tarnish the image of Islam
you guys remember when the hindutva were
causing a lot of Mayhem here
Mountain Road when it was announced that
who even organized this rally right it
could have been
some of the Hindus that organized
Israeli put the poster out just so the
Muslims could come and then it could be
used autonationism
as soon as the Muslims our brothers they
came to this area
all of the media was there
you had so many different media Outlets
all holding the cameras
imagine that
just waiting for one opportunity
so they could what tarnish the image of
Islam that's why I grabbed the mic and I
told them guys we have to be smart here
they are just waiting for a reaction
from us
this is of course the way the kuffa
right
looking for every opportunity
the Jews and the Christians will never
be pleased with you until part of their
religion
right
foreign
the Jews and the Christians
they wish
that they could pull you out of the
religion you know why because of Hazard
because of envy
they are burning with Envy when they see
thousands of people all prostrating
together
all doing together
right they say that New York is the city
that never sleeps right
I believe it's Makkah
the city that never sleeps
well they all come together and they are
all praying together side by side doing
rokua doing sujood
and that's what causes the enemy of
Islam to really really burn
so they're always looking for ways to
tarnish the religion of Islam so the
people can be chased away
right foreign
they really wish that they could
extinguish the light of Allah but Allah
azzawajal refuses to allow that to take
place
right so anyways
that wasn't even part of the lecture
prophets this whole tangent I went on
speaking about New York right
they were trying to intimidate the
Muslims
so a brother grabbed the mic and he said
the following
was the message and I'm just
paraphrasing here something along the
lines of
to call you to the Quran and then he
says no
hey no
but rather he was sent
to correct your morals and your manners
it's a problem
and the video is going round and round
and round
right and this is sometimes you know
when you think about it what's the root
cause of
ignorance maybe reaching
a big audience of people
it's when an individual does not study
the basics of his religion he doesn't
build himself a strong Foundation he
will come out and he'll start saying
these kind of things
these platforms are very very very very
important in how we deal with it
right and it can be very dangerous as
well
right right so like I said
the Atticus of two types the attic is
with Allah and the etiques with the
creation
right so there's no contradiction
between the two yes when the message
said I was sent to establish the correct
manners
and to perfect your morals
now this is true now with Allah azzawaj
and also with the Christian so there's
no contradiction between the two
yeah
also I want to mention Channel
all you believe do not raise your voice
over the voice of
prophet salallahu
um
upon hearing this because he was someone
who had a very loud voice right
he said
foreign
who used to raise his voice over the
president's messenger's voice it's
speaking about me
right
because
your actions will become fruitless
all that which you work so hard for
because you raised your voice over the
voice of the Prophet salallahu or you
decide now to do that right your actions
will become fruitless your Ramadan maybe
of 2022.
Nothing Left
I'll become like scattered particles
huh
and we mentioned last week I believe
this is also now referring to Allah
is saying something and then you
pushing your opinion over what the
message said or when someone is quoting
a Hadith you start raising your voice
over him
the benefit that I want to take from
this my brothers and my sisters is
he took this person
right he took it personally sometimes
when the khatib gives a hotba
or the sheriff delivers a lecture and
we're here
the speaker
or the instructor
warning against a particular concept
we think to ourselves oh yes my friend
does that
yes I saw my uncle doing it
I saw so and so behaving like that
right are we individuals who are
self-critical that say to ourselves
you know subhanallah this is something
that I need to change about myself
that we take it personally
right I need to rectify this well life
we had that kind of mind process
or thought process should I say or that
mindset
Our Lives will be so much more different
always looking for ways to better
ourselves we would become extremely
extremely humble
and then Allah goes on to say
is
those
who call out the messenger from behind
the rooms right
it means rooms the rooms that the
message and his wife used to live in
there was a
we mentioned before right
does anyone remember
the tribe that became Muslim
huh
the tribe anytime
they were a courageous
right Brave group of people
that were feared
especially on the battlefield
right so it really
brought the message a lot of Joy when
they became Muslims
from amongst them
he began to call out the message
in front of your house how would you
feel he's knocked knocked knocked three
times right
and no one opened the door and then he
starts calling out Muhammad Muhammad
from everyone how do you feel
right
this is why from the etiquettes is that
you knock three times and then you keep
it moving
huh
you keep it moving you don't knock the
fourth time
who can give me the verse or Allah talks
about
seeking permission and then going back
sort of nor
way to come head there
no there's another verse
three times you knocked
huh no one opened it leave type can we
apply that now also to phones
call him
doesn't pick up call him second time
and the third time
fourth fifth sixth drive him crazy
up until he blocks you and then you say
why'd you block me
well I feel like doing that sometimes
the guy just lost my phone
you can't do anything when someone's
calling calling calling calling calling
no I'm some of us Scholars have
mentioned that this also applies to the
phone
because when you're going to someone's
house you want to interact with him
right you want to speak to him here
likewise you want to speak to that
person
came out and this man said Allah
this man from amongst
he said
Our Praise will lift you will raise you
and if we criticize it we'll bring you
down
that's Allah
right
I think it's very very important to
mention my brothers and my sisters
the statement of animals
right because
we
as individuals we tend to focus a lot on
what people have to say
right so what do we do we always look to
please them we'll do certain things and
we might even end up displeasing Allah
azzawajal it's Allah and just so we can
be in their good books
when it comes to marriages weddings
when it comes to gatherings
when it comes to
marrying our children off
the number one focus is what is my
family going to say about x y and z
or what are the extended relatives going
to think about us making the small
wedding
it's from our other our cultural
practice that we blast music and that
the groom comes in
and he starts what rubbing shoulders
with women
say hey
we can't change the other our family
will become extremely extremely upset
so we can't break the Family Ties over
just one night
and we forget Allah
he said foreign
[Music]
will take care of that which is between
you and the people
another very profound statement that I
came across is
amazes me
how someone really goes out his way to
please others he does things just so
they could praise him or they can figure
they could think good of him
and then he forgets that their hearts
are in the hands of Allah
isn't it Allah that
can change the hearts of the people
what's my evidence when the prophet
salallahu said
two fingers of Allah
he does so as well
this should be our number one priority
my brothers and my sisters
today the people will praise you
tomorrow they will drop you
right
when they see the people giving you a
hard time
you see them huh drifting away
gravitating away from you
but when you're getting a lot of
publicity and everyone is flocking
around you oh you know we were friends
before so hey
that's Benny Adam for you
that is the children of Adam for you
one day they drop you tomorrow they
praise you and lift you
right
this is why we should just be concerned
about Allah
so now this man what is what is it what
is he saying in
us praising you is going to lift you
and I was criticizing you or defaming
you is going to what ruined your
reputation now Allah
May well be that you seclude yourself
with Allah
in your sujood huh
that whatever you thought was coming
your way will be
lifted
right so quickly
I want to mention my brothers and my
sisters
how to really drop in the eyes of the
people
you are a person of authority
a person of high status in your Society
people look up to you you might be a
community leader
you might be a chef you might be just a
random brother who Allah has gifted with
the Quran and the people are saying
masha'allah
foreign
lectures
the young man mashallah memorized the
Quran Allah
everyone's speaking about him
right
someone who the people think good of but
then all of a sudden
you drop in the eyes of the people
how do you drop in the eyes of the
people
Joseph
you know what he said guys and it's one
of my favorite statements that I always
constantly remind myself of
he said
he said I saw some people of knowledge
he's not talking about the average Joe
he's speaking about
a person of knowledge
it could be someone who studies the
Quran memorize the Quran oh he has taken
that path in seeking knowledge or he
could be a Sheikh or a Mufti
people like that
they have high statuses in our society
like everyone looks up to them
huh Abdullah walks into the Masjid
right people show respect
says
what do they fall into what was their
crime
they stopped being conscious of Allah
when alone in private behind closed
doors they are a different person
it could be that he stands on a member
and he says then him and his wife are
watching Netflix behind closed doors
huh watching American movies
with all types of satanic scenes
Sony a matter of time before he drops in
the eyes of the people or it could be
that he's addicted to watching filth
but even then Allah is concealing his
sins
right
so what happened look what he says
cause the good things that are mentioned
about them to disappear
today you're being president people
treat him like every other guy
the people don't look at him the same
anymore
them being present them being there is
like them being absent
there was no sweetness
and wanting to see them
and the heart stopped yearning and
wanting to meet them
you know sometimes Sheikh is coming
everyone's excited right
from the Hopeless coming today huh
everyone's excited to go to the lecture
right
I've come across before subhanallah an
individual that everybody wanted to meet
everybody was so excited to
hear from
him he has went by it's not like that
anymore stopped
right
subhanallah
what did the prophet saws
that's Allah
it's Allah who raises it is Allah brings
people down
all of this goes back to what my
brothers and my sisters your private
life
right if you want to keep your
reputation
be someone
who does more righteous deeds in private
than that which he does in public
huh
some of the scholars they were asked
about they were asked about sincerity
you know what their response was
from the signs of sincerity is that you
do more righteous deeds in private
than what you do in public
it's so easy to do righteous things in
public my brothers and my sisters but
when you are alone no one's watching
for you to start reciting Quran for you
now to pick up a pen and paper to seek
knowledge all of this
right
may Allah just give us a topic to be
like those people
also
in his explanation he says the following
Allah
that sometimes
he causes you know the veil that is
covering that individual's sins
to be lifted
you know from the names of Allah is what
City
covers your sins
I do not believe
that someone's private sins that came
out in public was due to him carrying
out that sin the first time evident that
are people catching you having done some
Haram behind closed doors I don't
believe this was the first time because
this goes against the hikmah the wisdom
of Allah
naming himself with this particular name
it's never the first time
Allah gives us chance of the chance of
the chance
and then at times Allah
sees it fit
to expose you
for everything that you've been doing
behind closed doors on your phone for it
to come out
exposes his sins and his shortcomings to
some of the creation
is
and he mentions reasons for that number
one
to haste and his his punishment
let me ask you guys a question my
brothers would we prefer to be exposed
in this Dunya for our sins to come out
which may lead us now to repent
everyone comes to know about it or
to meet Allah with one sin which one is
lesser of a problem my brothers and my
sisters
huh
to be exposed is less of a problem
is better
he said it is better that everyone finds
out about your shortcomings that you've
been doing behind closed doors huh
as opposed to meeting Allah as well just
once in
I don't think any of us my brothers
wanted to meet Allah
with a single sin
right
the punishment of Allah it's not a light
thing my brothers and my sisters
right
we are extremely shy
of the creation finding out about our
sins
he's feeling embarrassed right
why don't we have that same
right
why don't we have the same attitude with
Allah
right
so Allah punishes him in this Dunya
because a lot of time when you get
exposed and everyone finds out about it
you tend to be very regretful and
remorseful
you tend to what huh really hold
yourself to account
and then you meet Allah
wants to notify that individual
huh that worse Could Happen later on
this could be a huge lesson for the
people that find out about this
individual being exposed
so then he has a different attitude to
life
otherwise that will happen to me
if I don't get my act together
I know I'm sinning behind closed doors
Allah azzawajal still hasn't exposed me
right
but he has now shown me that which is
happening to so and so
[Music]
I need to get my act together
he says something very very touching his
he says Allah
indeed between you and Allah azzawajal
there are sins that no one knows about
except Allah
if you want Allah azzawajal
right to forgive you then be someone who
forgives others subhanallah foreign
right when in private
Allah
will expose him will uplift that Veil
that is covering his sins in public
he says
the private sins that we do in uh in a
when we are alone my brothers and my
sisters is a big reason why you will go
astray
sometimes you ask ourselves this
question right why is it all of a sudden
I can't
right
I can't even identify myself anymore
huh I've completely lost my way
I'm a different Muhammad to what the
people knew five years ago
hey
I can't even recognize myself anymore
what's happened
maybe because of the private sins
and he says
and you doing acts of worship
when alone is a huge reason that Allah
will keep you from
then
quoted some of the righteous of the past
and he said Allah
[Music]
the more you work on your relationship
with Allah when you are by yourself
foreign
will glow in
and better your situation when you are
alone in the grave
technology
mentions his line of poetry I was quote
quoting myself
do not be right
a Welly a saint in public
but then you are the enemy of Allah
very very quickly inshallah going to
stop
and then you guys can watch the
highlights
oh you believe
it comes to you
with a piece of news that is important
and never is very different to a khabar
es
if you translate it literally means news
right or some piece of information
right but like we always say the English
language doesn't give the Arabic
language is True Justice
it's very limited and never is
a very very important
piece of information
and here Allah chose it right
very important piece of information or
news
then what
right verify this information check it
Don't just run with it who's there
my brothers and my sisters
let me translate they literally it means
someone in transgressives someone who
transgresses
he says
era yeah
the opposite of passive is someone who's
what I do
if your translator literally means
upright
but we need to what go in a little bit
deeper to have a
correct understanding of
the qualities that a idle has
he says
by the way brothers and sisters you
would have to be adlun in order for your
testimony to be accepted in court did
you know that you call me a faster
so he says here
he who stays away from major sins
foreign
s this person is Adam
so the opposite is
someone who will carry out major sins
right
and then minor sins don't even ask
right that's a person with a faster
right of course you're going to make
mistakes that's why he didn't say that
the adult is someone who does not commit
any minor sins whatsoever no you're
gonna make mistakes you're a human being
this is something that is universal
every son of Adam is someone that not
just makes one or two messages
always makes mistakes
right
so now we have an idea fast now you ask
yourself the question
which of the two categories do a lot of
people fall into especially when they
bring you a piece of information
and even then it's always just best
if there is a lot at stake to double
check the information
in fact to triple check it especially in
today's day and age
right especially in the era of social
media
everything is being posted
and sometimes subhanallah
about the messages
narrations are being attributed him
and of course because we have good
intentions
we receive it on WhatsApp and we just
send it out
we need to double check it guys
otherwise someone else
someone else is going to
run with a narration that the messenger
was free from
whoever says about me now which I didn't
say
let him book his seats in Hell Fire it's
more easier
than booking your flight to France
it's more easier
because hey you just have to quickly say
it's that when you want to go to France
so when you want to go to umrah you have
to go to the computer and then you have
to go website you take your bank card
out it's a 10 minute process sorry
or maybe you're longer than that three
minutes
especially if you're trying to go to
Amara
and you have to visit the travel agents
huh takes a bit of time
you book your seat to go to Imran
booking your seat in the Hellfire is a
lot quicker my brothers and my sisters
you just have to say about the messenger
sunlight which he didn't say
very fine information my brothers is
extremely extremely extremely important
and it is as if this concept does not
exist especially on Twitter
so hey
you find individuals attributing
something to another
everyone's jumping on it to retweet
quote tweet
send it around
both
right
should we go through the seven of
the line last time we had some
observations
so why this Ayah came down
and had them as to whether this
narrations actually
uh authentic or not
right
they say
or it has been attributed to
uh
to some that this verse came down
uh with regards to Walid
when he was sent by the message
to collect the sadakat to collect the
charities
right
and of course because there was issues
between him and this tribe before Islam
when he got close to them he got a
little bit scared
he said maybe these guys are going to
come out on me
huh
they just went back to the message he
said o messenger of Allah they wanted to
kill me right
and they are not interested in paying
the zakat or the sadakhat
isn't got extremely angry
and he was even about to get an army
ready
right subhanallah one of the
tribe members of Benin musadev
managed to
reach the message and arrive just in
time
and inform the moment
he never arrived we just wanted to
double check what's happening
so the information was verified
right and it became very very clear
that
just had some Whispers
that he struggled to deal with
right
subhanallah and then the message
did not go ahead with
type
I want everyone inshallah to take away
these six points
and how to deal with a namam
who can tell me who anonymous
in English they translate as a tail
carrier
if
it is the person who carries tails in
order to cause corruption
you guys heard of a tail carrier
right he comes to you and he says oh
so-and-so said this is
foreign
whoever brings you information
right saying oh so-and-so said XY is
that about you Sony a matter of time
before he does the same to you
agreed
it is as simple as that
huh
also I believe it was
mentioned right
he said
the magician my brothers and my sisters
what is one of the magic
uh spells that he does that is mentioned
in the Quran give you guys a clue 16th
page
what did you do
good
foreign
between loved ones like the husband and
wife
it happens and it's very very widespread
right this is mentioned in
the story of
when Allah as we just sent them to the
people of Babylon it was the first
civilization
right and they were sent to the people
of Babylon as a test
there were two angels Allah
to teach magic Allah yes
but they would come with a huge
disclaimer in them
attack for we are a fitness to you
we are a test do not commit cover the
angel of the Satan don't commit cover we
have been sent by Allah as a test
either you walk away or you take it from
us at the expense of your religion
very very common even here in Leicester
my brothers and my sisters
and don't think my brothers and my
sister that the magician is going to
wear the Harry Potter hat because not
the Harry Potter
huh
and he's going to be wearing a big cloak
and when you walk into his house he has
all of these potions huh and the the
magic ball he's doing this
this is what they indoctrinated us with
her from a very young age in Nickelodeon
and Cartoon Network
the magician will look like me
wearing a big jupa huh cloak it's got a
long bed
hmm
and he's carrying out magic spells
right he's a sad
foreign
so anyways why did I mention all of that
these two they have a similarity the
Sahar and also the name
the one who carries tails what is the
common feature between them both who can
give it to me
what is the common feature or the common
denominator for you mathematicians huh
they target victims anyone else huh
between who
they cause corruption
right and division between loved ones
they separate between them
the magician he carried out a magic
spell too caused a split between husband
and wife father and son mother and
daughter
two blood brothers that love one another
but all of a sudden they are dwell with
one another
and then a man does the exact same thing
as well
he might even go to a whole tribe and
say oh that tribe said this or they get
ready straight away huh
and they're fighting with one another
because of one shaytan that came in
between them
I'm not even on social media someone
just comes and says something
ask Donald Trump a war can take place on
Twitter just because of one tweet a war
how many times did I nearly start the
war with the North Korean Guy what's the
name
Kim jong-hoo huh
he teaches us how to deal with this
I'm going to finish inshallah
anyone who brings you a piece of
information
to you about what so-and-so said
right
upon you is to do these six things
I know it can be extremely extremely
attempting to ask for more really what
did he say please
well I'm not going to tell anyone
he says do these six things number one
number one you do not take anything that
comes out of his mouth
why because he's a fascic
he's someone who's engaging in a major
sin
and we know
statement or testimony in court is
rejected agreed
so you can't even believe you can't even
trust this guy
right he's worse than a compulsive liar
number two my brothers and my sister's
athenny anhao
you need to advise him
and you need to prohibit him from
doing this particular act that he's
engaging in stop it
that's how you should react that's
number two number three guys
that you hate him for the sake of Allah
that is because he is what despised by
Allah
and of course someone who's engaging in
major sins you don't dislike him the
same way you dislike an innovator and
you cannot dislike an innovator the same
way you dislike a mushrik or a kafir
this is the issue of Allah
right love and hate for the sake of
Allah in the Quran this is what our hate
stands on even recently I gave it's
called the king the queen and my Muslim
we just have to go back to the drawing
board
right
we hate what Allah hates and we love
what the prophet salallahu and Allah
right this is what our dear is
we hate shirk we hate coffee we hate
Buddha we hate major sins
so for more information please
that is how many
three
that's writing down huh
number four
my brothers and my sisters that you
should not have bad thoughts about
that person he's speaking about
I think to you
so and so said x y and said about you
who's that so-and-so will call him Asa
I could easily end up having bad
thoughts about the Acer right
I shouldn't
right you should not have what bad
thoughts about an individual
later on we are told about yeah
oh you believe stay away from a lot of
bad thoughts
speculations assumptions
huh
these two hands
they go hand in hand with one another or
did I say these two verses they go hand
in hand with one another
number five
this should not lead you now in wanting
to spy
he said oh so-and-so said X Y and Z what
do you do
you start sending huh your troops to
that person just to find out the fish
for information
because you would fall under what well
you would fall into Justice which is
spying do not spy on one another Allah
tells us in this very Surah
and number six
oh
Muhammad came to and he said he says
saying x y and said you told Muhammad
don't do this
Allah
this is Haram what you're doing
he lives
later on you and
Ibrahim your other friend you guys are
just sitting in the car together and you
tell him okay guess what man
Muhammad came up to me and he told me
that is said about me X Y and Z how can
he say that about me Habibi you just
prohibited
right
Muhammad from doing so
and now you are
quoting
right what Muhammad said to someone else
this is number six
and we could easily fall into that
does that make sense my brothers and my
sisters
um
to conclude my brothers and my sisters
foreign
oh you believe do not ridicule and make
fun of one another
this is something that's Haram
this is something that is extremely
extremely common when it comes to joking
right
you joke around
make fun of others
especially when you go on Tick Tock
right it's not even just them joking
with their friends anymore the man's
joking with his mother
turning her into a laughing stock
she doesn't know that she's been
recorded he's recording her
oh he's doing this
absolutely taking the mick out of his
mother
and then he posted on Tick Tock because
he knows he's going to get a million
views
huh
it's not just even what one sin anymore
it is the sin of
mockery and also making fun of your
mother
right turning into life and laughing
stuff for Millions to enjoy
right
Islam is not against joking
the message and joked and he tore it
around with some of his companions
right I have a whole lecture on my
YouTube channel it's called April Fool's
Day
six conditions of joking there's another
clip we just cut it out it's supposed
six conditions of joking very very
quickly number one is that you don't
mock the dean of Allah
when making jokes you don't mock the
dean of Allah again this is very common
on Tick Tock right
on Instagram
memes that's where they called him right
I'm one mockery of the Deen that in fact
brothers and sisters takes you out the
religion did you know that foreign
foreign
number three you are truthful
right
April fools the weapons oh I remember
I'll never forget this brother came up
to me goes oh your grandmother she fell
off the balcony
imagine how it would feel
and he goes April Rose day
well I got so hungry huh I got so angry
at his brother
and number three is what to be Truth for
number four
not to shock that individual when you're
joking with him you know back in the day
he used to wait for the boss huh
the bus is coming and we're standing
there right
there's one standing on the edge of the
pavement we'd grab him huh
push him in front of the bus and I'm
pulling back put him back
would scare the life out of him
or someone is sleeping we take water
on his face nothing
and the guy wakes up in shock
number five
to not be excessive
if you want to be known as the class
clown then do so
no one ever takes you seriously
I like the boy that cried wolf you guys
heard of that story
boy that cried wolf did anyone believe
him after
and number six that you pick the right
time to joke
when you're walking to the janaza
someone just passed away you're going to
bury him is that the right time to be
joking
well you'll see people joking around
brothers and sisters
huh playing around with one another on
the way to a burial
also remember when Sheikh said to me I
think it was in fact
he said
they asked his brother to recite some
verses
foreign
out of all the verses that he could pick
guess what he picks on
famous
after you've divorced your wife twice
then either do this or do that
and then when they asked him after he
goes yeah I was just joking in it
right apparently your dad is in a
serious City
huh oh his friends are there and he
tells you to go and do X Y and Z and
then you start making jokes out of your
father
start messing around with him in front
of his friends
and to make things even worse you record
him and then you put it onto the
internet
hey let me ask you a question right
what if someone says oh he doesn't mind
being mocked he's okay with it
can I just make jokes out of him is it
still allowed even if he doesn't mind
and that is simply because Allah told
you don't mock whether he likes it or
not
it's like somebody's saying oh I don't
mind if my daughter commits dinner
you're asking for permission oh can I do
xenover he goes yeah
are you allowed to go do it just because
he's okay and then she's okay with it as
well
other than
yes
you Allah told you
you are part of the people of Iman right
don't mock
and subhanah we are not living in a Time
an age
if someone you ask him right you ask him
um do you get offended when I call you
like you know people make these fat
jokes huh
goes no no I'm not offended if he says
that he is offended
right people laugh at him even more oh
he can't take jokes anymore
you don't know what the brother's going
through the moment he goes back home
he might show a face to you but then
behind closed doors what
feels extremely extremely sad
sorry
when you're going to see what with your
friend extremely extremely sudden
I would love to go on but I'm going to
leave you guys a shout out I know some
of you guys want to go to
big
shares in town huh
mashallah
um I'm gonna stop it then Sean I think
it starts at six right
last week we went on all the way to 40
past but we'll stop here
is there going to be any more sessions
I've been told there's classes that goes
on which I'm disturbing
huh
so um there is a new series that
restarts you will be notified it will be
all over the internet
for coming President says I told Ernest
I'm not expecting anyone to turn up he
goes no I have good
thoughts of the Muslims they are going
to come
why because the World Cup final
and World Cup final
women don't even normally watch football
or is that a misogynistic comment to
make
generally speaking they don't watch
football but when it comes to the final
especially the penalty shooter they will
come and sit down
here
so I know how obsessed we are with
football and whatever have you for you
to sacrifice that in order to come to
listen to Allah
it's honestly something that I really
appreciate and ask elizo just to give
you guys the utmost
best and to give you all the highest
part of agenda
foreign
right I've got 500 unread messages so
this is why I didn't get back to you I
kept on saying your thing popping up hey
what was the question
is it private
um
give me
them up
um
well I'm not I'm not heard of the
narration before when I gave the lecture
about April Fool's Day which is on my
YouTube channel I gave a lot of examples
of how the message Allison jokes
so Mr live some job providing that we
meet these six conditions that I
mentioned and I hope all of you guys
have memorized it
all right there's no harm in joking
never used to walk around walk around
it wasn't like that his face all
Doom and Gloom
and a pleasant face you smile a lot
huh
um
when you said the issue of his interest
I thought you were going to ask me
a statement of um
one should not trade in our markets
except after learning his religion
an ignorant person now trading in the
markets what is that going to do
riba ignorance of buying and selling
transacting will start spreading right
subhanallah today we just jump into
cryptocurrency Forex by the way I don't
give a fit one cryptocurrency no one
asks me as I'm walking out
but I will tell you something they are
not doing the best at the moment
are they doing good at the moment
huh a lot of brother said this I think
there's a lot of investors here
not doing the best but every now and
again something pops up we just jump in
the street no you have to know is it
Halal or not you want to even have one
dirham of Haram
that you're dealing with which will take
the buttock out of everything in your
life
so they would learn
anyone asks a question
well I in a nice way to say to them you
know
this is only going to delete you to the
Hellfire Summoners Haram
no it's better to actually tell them
because they will keep on doing it to
others and their sins will increase
right
and you're doing a nice way don't just
grab them up huh
don't get violent with them
I remember it happened to me before I
was on a bus
and then uh some Somali ladies started
back buying me
she thinks I'm some Pakistani guy right
uh some Hindi some tomato
and then I said huh
lie I'll never forget her face
the way she got so shocked
I can put on different hats in it I know
different languages
still trying to learn Somali
huh
good yeah
very good
our Imam
Issa I asked
if you want to warn someone
about the bad people that he hangs
around with does that also fall on the
backbiting
there are six scenarios
as a whole chapter
the chapter of what is permissible when
it comes to bug bite he mentioned six
and you can find these six in these
lines of poetry where he says
six one of them is when you're warning
someone
right like for example I go to my father
and I say your son
talk to him because you're in a better
position to talk to him right he's what
hanging around with that drug dealer is
that bike biting it is exempt from the
general rule of speaking behind
someone's back
okay
also another scenario is
you've been oppressed and you go to the
Mufti I've been oppressed by so-and-so
what should I do in this scenario
Adi
right and there's another four result
I'm going to leave you guys inshallah
I don't think that you attending today
at a time when a lot of people are
distracted my brothers and my sisters
that this will go unnoticed
the reward is greater
than when usually attending election
right
the heedlessness is what
widespread